# Community
*Author: Scott Hurrey*  
*Categories: ['Building Blocks', 'Getting Started', 'SOAP Web Services']*  
*Tags: ['developer resources', 'community', 'blackboard learn', 'developer']*  
<hr />
Blackboard sponsors and participates in events for and by the Learn Developer
Community - Join in and participate!

# Communities

Join the Blackboard Developers Network The Blackboard Developers Network
(BbDN) is a community of nearly 2000 developers from academic institutions and
commercial vendors. Open, collaborative development is the foundation of the
Blackboard Developer Network. This community born in 2001 relies upon the
open, standards-based APIs and web services available for the Blackboard
Academic Suite and documented in the Building Blocks Software Development Kit
(SDK). This technology enables developers at academic institutions and
commercial vendors to develop customizations and integrations with the
Blackboard Academic Suite to enhance online teaching and learning experiences
around the world. These open, standards-based Java-based APIs and web services
allow for the sharing of valuable data between Blackboard software and other
systems and tools through development of Blackboard Building Blocks.

Everyone is free to browse the content of this site. A Behind the Blackboard
developer account is required to download our product installers. Existing
academic institutions and commercial partners can request an account, usually
at no cost, within the terms of our existing contracts. For instructions, see
the FAQ. Interested entities are welcome to join our Developers Network.

To learn more, visit [https://www.blackboard.com/Platforms/Learn/Extensions/Ov
erview.aspx](https://community.blackboard.com/external-link.jspa?url=https%3A%
2F/www.blackboard.com/Platforms/Learn/Extensions/Overview.aspx).

# Join the Developer Listserv

The [developer listserv](https://community.blackboard.com/external-
link.jspa?url=http%3A//lists.vcu.edu/cgi-bin/wa%3FA0%3Dbb-open_src) is
a great way to ask questions or seek advice from other Blackboard developers.

# Join TechBUG

TechBUG is an evolution of the SysBUG and regularly hosts webinars and other
tactical sessions that address the current challenges of Blackboard's
technical community.

# Contribute to OSCELOT

[OSCELOT](https://community.blackboard.com/external-
link.jspa?url=https%3A//www.oscelot.org/), the Open Source Community for
Educational Learning Objects and Tools, is a community of learning tool
developers that creates innovative open source solutions for the challenges
facing the eLearning community. They host code management infrastructure
(projects.oscelot.org) and hold a yearly Open Source Day event in conjunction
with Blackboard DevCon to promote and support the creation of open source
learning tools. Many free and open source Building Blocks emerge from this
passionate group. Their focus is increasingly on learning tools that comply
with open standards and specifications.

# Events

Visit the Calendar of Events on the bottom of the Developer Community homepage
for links to Office Hours, DevCons, Presentations, and other events of
interest to developers.

## Attend the Developers Conference

The yearly Blackboard Developers Conference is now held in conjunction with
the BbWorld Users Conference. It evolved from a Developer Workshop first held
at Georgetown University in 2003 and now addresses the professional
development needs of not only developers but also system administrators and
other technical members of Blackboard's client community.

## Attend Regional DevCons

Regional DevCons are "mini-DevCons" held in conjunction with the International
Blackboard Teaching and Learning Conferences each year. They are usually
tactical in nature and a day and a half in length, and are currently held in
Europe, Australia, and Singapore. Stay tuned for new locations as the program
continues to expand.

## Attend Developer Office Hours

Developer Office Hours take place every other week. We have guest speakers
present on the Developer Topics you are interested in. We also advocate and
promote open discussion amongst Blackboard and Building Block Developers.

