# Hackboard 17 Judges
*Author: Scott Hurrey*
*Categories: []*
*Tags: ['developer', 'blackboard', 'developers', 'aws', 'ibm', 'hackboard', 'hackathon', 'judges', 'peter george', 'katie blot', 'michael king', 'chalapathy neti', 'leo zhadanovsky', 'warren santner']*
---
Please meet your Celebrity judges for Hackboard 17!

# [![TimTom127x178.png](https://community.blackboard.com/servlet/JiveServlet/d
ownloadImage/102-3538-17-107705/TimTom127x178.png)](https://community.blackboa
rd.com/servlet/JiveServlet/showImage/102-3538-17-107705/TimTom127x178.png)Tim
Tomlinson

Chief Product Officer

Blackboard

Tim serves as Blackboard’s Chief Product Officer. In this role, he is
responsible for the design and development of the company’s innovative and
comprehensive product portfolio.

Tim has more than twenty years of experience engineering technology solutions
and leading software development projects and teams. Previously, he was
Blackboard’s Vice President of Product Development, where his responsibilities
spanned leadership of open source services from Moodlerooms and NetSpot,
Blackboard’s Analytics product portfolio, solutions for K12 Community
Engagement, and most recently, Blackboard Learn. In that role, he established
a new Cloud Services Product Development team in 2012 and spearheaded the
company’s first steps on the path to embracing SaaS and public Cloud
technologies.

Prior to joining Blackboard in 2009, Tim served as Director of Software
Development for ANGEL Learning. He has served on the Executive Committee of
the Technical Advisory Board for the IMS Global Learning Consortium.

Tim holds a Bachelor of Science degree from the Kelley School of Business at
Indiana University and has earned a Project Management Professional (PMP)
Certification from the Project Management Institute.

As a first-generation college graduate and the father of three daughters, Tim
has both a professional and a personal devotion to the furtherance of
education as a pathway to expanded opportunity and personal development.

# [![Katie Blot 1-127x178.jpg](https://community.blackboard.com/servlet/JiveSe
rvlet/downloadImage/102-3538-17-106678/Katie+Blot+1-127x178.jpg)](https://comm
unity.blackboard.com/servlet/JiveServlet/showImage/102-3538-17-106678/Katie+Bl
ot+1-127x178.jpg)Katie Blot

Chief Strategy Office

Blackboard

Katie Blot is Chief Strategy Officer. In this capacity, she’s responsible for
aligning Blackboard’s business to industry and customer needs – overseeing key
functions including industry strategy and development, business line
leadership, product and partner management, marketing – and ensuring we build
and deliver products and services that our customers love.

Prior to joining Blackboard, Katie held positions at the U.S. Department of
Education including Chief Information Officer (CIO) for Federal Student Aid
and Deputy General Manager for the Application, School Eligibility and
Delivery Services Unit where she was responsible for processing over 14
million student applications for federal student aid and delivering over $60
billion in Title IV programs.

Katie began her career in the higher education group at BearingPoint (formerly
KPMG Consulting). In her 10+ years there, she worked with hundreds of schools
advising on the effective delivery of student services.

Katie has over 20 years of experience in the education industry, providing
leadership in the business and technology realms. She understands how to
realize the benefits of effectively aligning human capital, business processes
and technology to achieve business objectives at educational institutions and
the success of their students. Katie has also served as a national speaker
presenting on topics such as: “STEM Education and the Power of Technology,“
“Achieving Learning Outcomes in a Changing Education Landscape“ and “What’s
Next for Education: The New Course Ecosystem.“

Katie earned her BA in Economics from The Johns Hopkins University in 1993.

As mother of three boys, Katie is both professionally and personally dedicated
to advancements in education. She is actively involved in research and trends
in student-learning outcomes, competency-based learning and the links between
education and employment. She participates in discussions on innovation in
education and serves on the Executive Board of a local early-childhood
education provider, the Board of Directors of the NEA Foundation, and the
Board of Directors of UPCEA.

# [![michaelking-127x178.jpg](https://community.blackboard.com/servlet/JiveSer
vlet/downloadImage/102-3538-17-107057/michaelking-127x178.jpg)](https://commun
ity.blackboard.com/servlet/JiveServlet/showImage/102-3538-17-107057/michaelkin
g-127x178.jpg)Michael King

Vice President and General Manager, Global Education Industry

IBM

Michael King is the worldwide leader for the IBM Education Industry with
responsibility for strategy, marketing and sales across schools and higher
education. He oversees IBM’s work with K12 schools and higher education
institutions, including the development of industry specific solutions. IBM’s
portfolio in Education includes consulting and IT services, analytics tools
and other software, as well as cloud and high performance computing.

He has been with IBM for over 30 years in various executive and management
positions, with most of those in education and learning. Michael’s passion has
been constantly leveraging new technology to improve education for
institutions and students. He helped deliver programs like ThinkPad
University, Insight at School, LearningVillage and many others. Michael also
worked in IBM’s corporate training segment, leading marketing, strategy and
partner programs. Most recently, he helped direct IBM’s strategy for cognitive
computing in Education, bringing Watson to classroom, campus, and career.

Michael serves on the board of several organizations focused on Education. He
is a member of the Board of Trustees of Strada Education Network, supporting
their mission of “completion with a purpose”. He serves on the board of the
Business – Higher Education Forum, a leadership group dedicated to improving
the alignment of Education with workforce needs. He also serves on the Board
of Directors of the IMS Global Learning Consortium, which fosters industry
collaboration to build interoperable technology systems through industry
standards.

Michael holds Bachelors of Science degrees in Physics and Engineering from
Kansas State University and an MBA from the University of California, Los
Angeles.

# [![chalapathy-neti-127x189.jpg](https://community.blackboard.com/servlet/Jiv
eServlet/downloadImage/102-3538-17-106691/chalapathy-neti-127x189.jpg)](https:
//community.blackboard.com/servlet/JiveServlet/showImage/102-3538-17-106691/ch
alapathy-neti-127x189.jpg)

# Chalapathy Neti

Vice President, Development and Offering Management, IBM Watson Education

IBM

Chalapathy Neti is currently the Vice President, Innovation, IBM Watson
Education.

Prior to this role, he was Director of Education Transformation (2013-2015),
leading IBM’s global innovation agenda to define and develop information
technology innovations to transform education towards a more personalized,
outcome-based and low-cost system. Prior to this role he was Director and
Global Leader, Healthcare Transformation, at IBM Research (2010-2012). In this
role he co-led an IBM wide strategy to define IBM’s approach to healthcare
transformation and led an orchestrated innovation effort across the worldwide
team, culminating in the launch of foundational solutions like IBM Smarter
Care solutions in 2012, and leading to the launch of first industry-specific
IBM Watson Health business unit in 2015. Prior to this role, he held a variety
of senior management and technical positions in IBM Research and IBM business
divisions: Senior Manager of Information Analysis and Interaction (2005-2008)
technologies, managing several research groups to develop text, image and
video analysis technologies and its application to Bio-medical Informatics,
Medical Imaging and Decision intelligence (e.g. Customer Intelligence, Fraud
detection and Video Surveillance); CTO of IBM’s Digital Media business (2004)
leading the development of Digital media management offerings; Manager of
audio-visual speech technologies (2001-2003) to lead the development of rich
media analysis (speech, audio and video) and mining. He has been with IBM
since 1990.

Chalapathy Neti received his Ph.D. degree in Biomedical Engineering from The
Johns Hopkins University (1990), and B.S degree from Indian Institute of
Technology, Kanpur (1980). He has more than 25 years of advanced R&D, sales
and consulting experience and has authored over 50 scientific publications and
16 patents in various fields related to bio-medical informatics, medical
imaging, speech and video analysis, Computational Neuroscience and VLSI
Design. He was an active contributor to Institute of Medicine on Evidence-
based Medicine and Learning Healthcare Systems. He was a co-organizer of the
National Cancer Policy Forum/Institute of Medicine Workshop on _“_ _A
Foundation for Evidence-Driven Practice: A Rapid Learning System for Cancer
Care”(2009),_ and IOM workshop on “_Improving the clinical data utility_”
(2009). He was an active contributor to the scientific discourse on the role
of I/T in Education and healthcare as a panelist/speaker including GSV
Advisors CEO summit (2015), Wharton Healthcare Summit (2015), Health 2.0
(2011), NIH conference on “Advancing Rare Diseases Research” (2010) and the
Congressional Panel on “How I/T is changing Medical Research” (2009). He
represented IBM strategy in Education and healthcare transformation through
media interviews and social media presence
([http://venturebeat.com/2013/12/16/ibm-reveals-its-top-five-predictions-for-
the-next-five-years/?cm_mc_uid=15682333897014393948923&cm_mc_sid_50200000=1454
354231](https://community.blackboard.com/external-
link.jspa?url=http%3A//venturebeat.com/2013/12/16/ibm-reveals-its-
top-five-predictions-for-the-next-five-years/%3Fcm_mc_uid%3D1568233389701439
3948923%26cm_mc_sid_50200000%3D1454354231)

[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=I7aPPP9nosY&feature=related](https://community
.blackboard.com/external-link.jspa?url=http%3A//www.youtube.com/watch%3F
v%3DI7aPPP9nosY%26feature%3Drelated)).

He served on the Editorial Board of IEEE Lifesciences Portal. He is a former
member of IEEE Multimedia Signal Processing technical committee (2001-2004),
an associate editor of IEEE transactions on Multimedia (2002-2005) and a guest
editor for the IBM Systems Journal. He is currently a member of the IBM
Academy of Technology (an association of the top IBM technical leaders).

# [![Leo_Zhadanovsky_1_02-15-127x190.jpg](https://community.blackboard.com/ser
vlet/JiveServlet/downloadImage/102-3538-17-106686/Leo_Zhadanovsky_1_02-15-127x
190.jpg)](https://community.blackboard.com/servlet/JiveServlet/showImage/102-3
538-17-106686/Leo_Zhadanovsky_1_02-15-127x190.jpg)Leo Zhadanovsky

Principal Solutions Architect

Amazon Web Services

Leo Zhadanovsky, a Principal Solutions Architect at Amazon Web Services,
spends his days (and occasional nights!) helping customers best leverage AWS
services in order to help them build highly-available, scalable and elastic
architectures to fulfill their business needs. As a speaker, Leo has delivered
talks at conferences around the world, including Re:Invent, OmniTI Surge, and
PuppetConf. Previously the Director of Systems Engineering at the Democratic
National Committee, he’s also run the DNC's on-premise and cloud
infrastructure, in use by the Obama campaign, state and local Democratic
parties. This infrastructure was used to support hundreds of millions of
dollars in online donations, and withstood significant amounts of election day
traffic.

In his free time, he enjoys travelling the world, going for a bike ride, and
trying out new restaurants in whatever city he finds himself in.

# [![Warren Santner - 127x190.jpg](https://community.blackboard.com/servlet/Ji
veServlet/downloadImage/102-3538-17-106687/Warren+Santner+-+127x190.jpg)](http
s://community.blackboard.com/servlet/JiveServlet/showImage/102-3538-17-106687/
Warren+Santner+-+127x190.jpg)Warren Santner

Manager, Solutions Architecture

Amazon Web Services

Warren Santner has combined his passion for education and deep knowledge of
technology to help Education customers reap the benefits of cloud computing.
At Amazon Web Services, Warren advises education leaders on ways to improve
teaching and learning experience, reduce costs, and improve overall
efficiencies through technology transformation. Before AWS, Warren was a
teacher and IT lead in multiple schools and districts. Warren has a Master’s
Degree in Education from Arizona State University and a B.S. in Electrical
Engineering from Purdue University.

