# Welcome to Hackboard 2017
*Author: Scott Hurrey*  
*Categories: []*  
*Tags: ['developer', 'rest', 'lti', 'developers', 'hackboard', 'hackathon']*  
<hr />
# Welcome to Hackboard!!

### The annual hackathon sponsored by Blackboard!

Hackboard is a chance for developers, hobbyists, students, or anyone else to
build an application to help transform teaching and learning globally.
Blackboard Learn will be the focus of this first edition, specifically the use
of the Learn REST APIs to build a Learning Tool Interoperability (LTI) Tool
Provider that interacts with Blackboard Learn to build an application to
enhance the student and teacher experience. What the application does is only
limited by your creativity!

The hackathon will offer two divisions. The **Open Division** is open to
anyone in the United States. This group will compete for the Kroner Cup trophy
and $2000. The **Student Division** will allow college students in the United
States to compete against each other for a trip to New Orleans to receive the
Fontaine trophy. The winning integrations will receive free entry to DevCon
and BbWorld, a chance to win the "People's Choice Award," and several other
opportunities for recognition and bragging rights. For more information on the
prizes visit the [prizes
page](https://community.blackboard.com/docs/DOC-3537-hackboard-17-prizes).

We also have a wonderful selection of celebrity judges. To be specific, we
have 6 judges from Blackboard, IBM, and Amazon Web Services reviewing the
submissions and selecting three finalists from the open division and the
winner from the student division. The judges are:

**Judge  
****Title****Company**

Tim Tomlinson

Chief Product Officer

Blackboard

Katie Blot

Chief Strategy Officer

Blackboard

Michael King

Vice President and General Manager, Global Education Industry

IBM

Chalapathy Neti

Vice President, Development and Offering Management, IBM Watson Education

IBM

Leo Zhadanovsky

Principal Solutions Architect

Amazon Web Services

Warren Santner

Manager, Solutions Architecture

Amazon Web Services

For more information on the judging panel, visit the [Judges
page](https://community.blackboard.com/docs/DOC-3538-hackboard-17-judges).

Check out [the
rubric](https://community.blackboard.com/docs/DOC-3536-hackboard-17-judging-
criteria-ppt) the judges will use to rate each entry. The basic tenets of the
judging criteria are:

  * Innovation
  * User Experience
  * Quality
  * Impact
  * Technical Difficulty
  * Presentation

Scores will be provided based upon how the application implements each of
these tenets. These scores will be totaled and averaged and the winners will
be determined. In the event of a tie, judges will pick the winner. If there
are a large number of entries, an internal panel of integration and strategy
experts will review the submissions and provide a group of semi-finalists to
the judges.

**[Visit the registration page](https://community.blackboard.com/external-link.jspa?url=http%3A//bbbb.blackboard.com/hackboard-hackathon%3Futm_source%3DCommunity%26utm_medium%3DWeb%26utm_campaign%3DHackboard_Hackathon%26utm_term%3DEvent%26utm_content%3DLink_On_Community_Website) to join the hackathon.**

At the conclusion of the contest, the competitors will be responsible for
committing code changes to GitHub complete with the appropriate [Community
Commons license](https://community.blackboard.com/external-
link.jspa?url=https%3A//creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/) by
8am ET on Monday, July 19, 2017. A project should be created in this space,
which should contain a link to the source code and a video demonstration of
the application. Both of these must be received by the closing date and time
or penalties will be assessed. [Watch this video
demonstration](https://community.blackboard.com/videos/1540-video-how-to-
submit-my-application-for-judging) of how to create a project.

If you have any questions, feel free to start a discussion in this group, or
email us at [developers@blackboard.com](mailto:developers@blackboard.com), or
join us for [regularly scheduled office
hours](https://community.blackboard.com/groups/technical-office-
hours/activity).

Happy Developing!!

